>> One time, we had a small
plane go down somewhere
in Africa.
And we were not able to
find it by surveillance.
So the director of the CIA heard
about a woman in California
that was a medium or something.
I don't know the title for her.
And she gave him the latitude
and longitude of the plane's
whereabouts, and we
located the plane
where she said it was lost.
And that's the only
time that I have ever
experienced something
that was inexplicable
while I was President.
>> He was the most
psychic man in the world,
but nobody seems to
know what killed him.
>> It began with Russell Targ.
The physicist in the beret
there appeared at my door
with a box of documents.
>> So this is marker 701.
This is where the caretaker
told me I should start.
And I'm going to see what this.
And this is marker 700.
So indeed, Pat's grave
is entirely unmarked.
I think he deserved
better than that.
This is probably
my last opportunity
to say goodbye to
my good friend Pat.
Pat Price often said,
the more attention
you place on hiding
something, the more it shines
like a beacon in psychic space.
>> Pat Price died in 1975,
and some people believe it was
because of his work
with remote viewing.
>> Psychic spies.
Cold War whimsy,
or secret weapon?
Some people may have
certain psychic powers.
This may reassure you.
It may alarm you.
But in fact, for some years now,
the US intelligence community
has wagered a modest amount
of money on the possibility
that such powers do exist.
Such powers do exist.
Do exist.
But the most
enduring experiments
have been in the field
of remote viewing.
We got into it
when we discovered
that they were in it.
>> We've found that many
individuals are able
to accurately describe what's
going on in distant locations
blocked from any kind
of ordinary perception.
>> Are you saying that the
work you've been doing is
classified?
>> I really can't talk about
matters of classification,
as you can imagine.
My name is Russell Targ,
and I'm a physicist.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is our last chance
to tell our story.
I haven't been on a road trip
like this for many years.
They always assume that
people are immortal.
I hope the people who have seen
and used apparational material
will say yes, that
really happened.
A huge trove of material
was declassified by the CIA,
so this is really the first
time that the people who
were cognizant of secret
material can talk about it.
>> At one time, humanity
worshipped fire.
The shamans called it magic,
and the people feared it.
And now science recognizes
fire as simply another part
of the natural world.
Ideas change based
on new evidence.
The fear of the unknown remains.
>> The future, the future,
it all looms very large.
>> What if psychic
abilities were real?
What if you could
look anywhere using
only the power of your mind?
And if these abilities really
exist, what would that do
to the world when it found out?
The CIA financed
a project in 1975
to develop a new
kind of agent who
could truly be called a spook.
>> Dad, when you told me that
you were interested in using
classified materials, that you
were eager to get them out,
and you were, I was
principally concerned for you.
>> And our family, no doubt.
>> No doubt.
We received a
letter from the CIA,
and said sorry,
not now, but later.
Well, Nicholas, I'm just
going to publish the book.
And I just thought
that what could
be more important than
to help my father one,
get the documents
that he was seeking,
but also to help make sure
that he stayed out of jail?
So that all seemed like a
very worthwhile enterprise.
>> Yeah, very good thinking.
>> Yeah.
I then contacted the
congresswoman in Palo Alto,
and she submitted a letter
on your behalf as well.
>> Oh, that's very nice.
I didn't know that.
>> Several months later, the CIA
released the documents that we
had requested, and you were able
to tell me the story in full
detail.
>> If I taught you to expect a
miracle, it's been worthwhile.
With the floodgates now open,
an additional 70,000 documents
on remote viewing
were declassified.
I can now show
everybody these pictures
without having to
kill them afterwards.
You can actually take out
of thin air information
about something you have
absolutely no access
to just using your mind.
If we want to know why the CIA
was lying about our program,
perhaps we should go to
Detroit and talk to Kit Green,
our former contract monitor.
He was Branch Chief of the
Life Sciences Division at CIA.
>> I was given the results.
The drawings showed the ability
of a visual representation
that appeared to be better
than overhead imagery.
In Pat Price's
drawings, it was as
if it was from inside his
brain that the information was
coming, not from his eyeballs
overhead looking down.
>> It was obvious to any
intelligence organization that
if you had an ability to be
able to remotely perceive stuff,
really remotely, like
any place in the world,
that could be an extraordinary
intelligence source.
>> The remote viewing program
basically ran from the early
'70s to the mid-'90s.
>> For more than 20 years,
the CIA used psychic abilities
operationally and in a top
secret program for the US
government.
You paid for them.
You deserve to see them.
>> CIA said cease and desist.
People said, this
stuff was so intriguing
that we got back into the game.
>> "We once found a guy that
could see anywhere in the world
through his psychic powers.
We could show him a
picture of any place,
and he could describe any
activity going on there.
But he died, and we haven't
heard from him since."
CIA director Stansfield Turner,
"Chicago Tribune," August 1977.
>> As I believe, when he
died, he was out in Las Vegas
or something, and Kit
Green rushed out there.
>> Even though he died
unattended in a hotel room,
you don't need to make it
a medical examiner case,
although that's not correct.
And he was taken
to the emergency
room, which I visited.
Speaking now as a
criminologist, I
would have investigated
the hell out of it.
>> But the water is
a little bit murky.
So I'm going to
change to a bigger fly
that they can see better.
Oh, there we go.
We got one.
>> So what do you do with
it after you catch it?
>> Catch and release only.
The cutthroats are
now pretty endangered,
so you can't keep them.
Where the red is, it's
like his throat's been cut.
>> Yeah.
>> Ken Kress was our long-term
contract monitor at CIA.
He was a physicist.
Ken Kress became a mythic figure
when he wrote a long paper
in the annals of intelligence
describing our program,
but he's never come forward.
>> Kress had never been
interviewed before this film,
and every question we asked
had to be submitted for vetting
by the CIA.
>> I was undercover.
The fact that CIA was even
doing anything with SRI
was confidential information.
>> So Sid Gottlieb
looked around,
came up with my name
because I was a physicist,
and he called me in
and he said, well,
I'd like you to take
over this project.
And he said the reason is
there's two physicists at SRI,
and I think you three
can probably communicate.
>> The first series of
experiments here at Stanford
researchers did were what
the scientists called remote
viewing.
For example, here
is a re-enactment
of one of the first
experiments last year.
The subject was a New York
artist named Ingo Swann.
He was in the room.
The experimenters, doctors
Harold Puthoff and Russell
Targ, were driving
away in a car.
Their destination was
in a sealed envelope.
This day, it was
Palo Alto City Hall.
The subject did not know,
but back in the room,
the subject began
sketching and describing
where he imagined they might be.
Here was the tape recording
that he made them.
>> There must be buildings
around, in sort of an area,
enclosed of some sort,
a quadrangle or a quad.
And then I sort of
thought that there
might be a fountain around, but
I didn't hear any water in it.
>> There is a fountain.
That day, it was turned off.
Back in the room, the subject
sketched a pattern he thought
was crosswalks coming
together in a circle.
In fact, the courtyard
is paved in this pattern.
The courtyard where
they were is two miles
from the room where
the subject was.
There had been no
communication between them.
>> Somehow or another, Kit
Green and Ingo got together.
Kit came up with a report,
and he sent this back
circulating through the CIA, and
eventually got to Sid Gottlieb.
Gottlieb was already
predisposed to look
at the psychic phenomena
from 10 years ago.
>> As the CIA's sorcerer,
Gottlieb attempted to raise
assassination to an art form.
Out of his labs had come
many debilitating potions.
>> We knew who Sid Gottlieb
was, the director of the famous
MKUltra program.
This is by 1974.
MKUltra was the CIA's
notorious mind control program
in the 1950s and '60s, where
they were giving LSD to people
to see if you could create
a Manchurian Candidate
and strip away their memories.
We considered him
sort of the Josef
Mengele of the American side.
Mengele of course, was a
notorious Nazi physician
who did biological experiments
on Jewish prisoners.
Gottlieb was not doing that.
Gottlieb of course is Jewish.
He was just torturing other
people independent of race
or religion.
He is sort of an equal
opportunity misanthrope.
From my point of
view, he reminded me
of my old uncle Sid.
>> When he died, he was out
in Las Vegas or something.
He was out in Las Vegas.
>> In early 1972 I briefed
NASA and the CIA on proposed
experiments to help people
develop their psychic
abilities.
Well, Hal and I thought it would
be very interesting to meet
with Sid Gottlieb.
He was enthusiastic
about the idea
of giving remote viewers
LSD as a way of enhancing
their psychic abilities.
I was opposed to that.
Remote viewing requires a
person's conscious cooperation,
and we explained
that to Gottlieb,
and he seemed to
completely understand.
So he led us down into the
basement of the Pentagon,
and it seemed to us that he was
sort of stored in the basement
with all of his books.
The only really
comfortable place
we'd ever been in the CIA.
The idea, after
talking to Gottlieb,
that the decision to give
us money to go forward
probably had already been made.
>> Reports that the Soviets
were using psychics to spy on us
prompted us to do
the same to them.
>> There was intelligence,
hard intelligence.
I mean, intelligence that was
like, really, really good.
Internal program intelligence
about what the Soviets were
doing in medicine and psychology
that stated that they believed
that United States military,
the United States intelligence
officers, and United
States scientists
would be ripe for
recruitment as spies
if they were interested
in crazy things
like psychic research, remote
viewing, and parapsychology.
And they would tell
their government
people that were responsible
for doing recruiting
and so forth, hey, if
you want to find somebody
in the Washington, DC area that
might be pretty interesting,
find somebody that spends their
time doing psychic research.
>> They must have been following
Russ around constantly, then.
>> It's natural for a visually
handicapped person like me
to be interested
in optics, magic,
and extrasensory perception.
I'm a legally blind,
motorcycle-riding physicist.
In 1934, I was born in Chicago.
I was a child magician.
I used to perform magic tricks
at birthday parties and art
openings.
As a magician, I understand
how people can be tricked.
That's always made me a
better researcher, especially
in a field like ESP.
I left graduate school
at Columbia in 1956,
and in 1958, I began
working on the earliest
development of the laser.
I was looking for a way
to get into some kind
of psychical research and
still support my family.
>> Russell was enthusiastic,
and Hal was more like what you
would expect a
theoretician to be,
but they both came
across as physicists.
>> I heard that there was going
to be a lecture at Stanford
University, and there was a
young physicist, Hal Puthoff,
giving a lecture on Psychic
Discoveries Behind the Iron
Curtain, American
and Russian ESP.
And I then went back and talked
to my new friend Hal Puthoff
and said I think I've got
some dough, let's talk
to your management about
creating a program.
And he said that
would be very nice.
You just have to promise that
you'll keep a low profile.
So that was in June
of 1972, and this
led to the beginning
of our program
at SRI to investigate
psychic abilities.
I looked forward
to coming to work.
Every day had a new miracle.
I feel like the child magician
finally got a job doing magic.
>> As we were doing
these experiments,
we began to run into flack
from the psychologists at SRI.
They said, you know,
you've got that crazy ESP
experiments going on.
That's going to
ruin our reputation.
We're going to lose our funding.
Get rid of those guys.
>> Hal had worked for several
years in Naval Intelligence
in Washington, and that may
have made him a little more
secretive indeed.
>> I had access to one of
the most shielded experiments
on the planet.
It was a shielded
magnetometer that
measures weak magnetic fields.
>> Against his better judgment,
Hal snuck his very first
subject into a forbidden
lab at Stanford.
The man claimed to be the
greatest psychic in the world.
And his name was Ingo Swann.
Swann claimed that he
could move the needle
of an unswayable
magnetometer buried
under 30 feet of concrete with a
classified design used to sniff
out nuclear explosions.
>> It even had
superconducting shielding.
Its claim to fame was that
nothing from the outside
could affect it.
>> Not only could Ingo
perfectly sketch the design,
but the needle moved.
It nearly got them
kicked out Stanford
for breaking an experiment.
And that got the
attention of the CIA.
>> I asked the CIA agents,
why are you looking me up?
And he says, well, we couldn't
care less about the fact
that he perturbed that
magnetometer, but the fact
that he could look through
superconducting shielding
and see what was inside.
That is really a concern.
>> In a way, I can understand
other people's response
to our work.
If someone had come up
and told me four years ago
the kinds of things
I'm now telling people,
I think I would have
been skeptical also.
When I first met Ingo, of
course he was coming out
with this claim of quote, "being
a psychic" and at that time,
before I started seeing results
of it, I was very skeptical.
And he was very confident.
>> The psychic is a kind
of remote sensing device,
and that I think has a
contribution to make to both
science and humanity.
To understand Ingo,
I think you have
to see a creative, highly
intelligent, deeply wounded
man, who found in
remote viewing a pathway
to the acclaim that he sought.
>> We might do an experiment
that looked like a really good
outcome, and he
would say no, no, no.
This is not so good.
And he would come up
with some loophole.
And so he would say look, if we
take credit for an experiment,
and then someone
can come along later
and find some loophole
or some false positive,
then they'll reject it.
And then even when we do good
experiments, they'll reject it.
>> He told me a story.
He was a homosexual, which
doesn't matter, I mean,
who cares?
But it mattered
to him, because he
told me a story which I've never
forgotten of being beaten up
by a bunch of boys who
he liked and admired
when he was a youth.
And I think he wanted
to be acknowledged.
>> I've often recovered many of
the thoughts about existence I
had as a child.
A major one of these was the
separation of consciousness
from the body, which was
very real when I was a child.
This kind of thing
happens in art.
I believe, and I
always have believed,
and I've returned to it
many times in my life,
that I am not this body
in terms of consciousness,
and consciousness can go
places where the body cannot.
>> It was very important to
him to be validated by SRI.
SRI was the first lab of a
different order of magnitude
from all prior
parapsychological research.
>> What SRI was always upset
about is that during our day
here, we brought in 1% of the
money and 99% of the publicity.
>> Back in 1972, SRI was
primarily a contractor
for the government
and some industry.
With the riots in the
late '60s, early '70s,
the fact that classified
work was going on
at Stanford University,
they didn't like that.
>> Up until that time, most
parapsychological research was
done by small foundations
on minuscule budgets,
operating in a corner
of some basement.
>> At SRI, the level of
classification was top secret.
It took a long time to get
the security clearance.
>> You can't walk around.
You have to be escorted
because of the secret projects.
Full of high-class
scientific equipment,
beeping, and showing on
the cathode, ray tubes
and all that.
>> And when Russell and
Hal got positioned there,
it had a big impact.
And on Ingo, it had a
particularly big impact,
because the work that he did
at SRI drew a lot of attention.
>> To be in that
kind of laboratory,
they must be very important
and really have a grasp
of the truth.
So you guys had a psychological
procedure in the neighborhood
thing, as it were,
that was fantastic,
and I think that's partially why
you got such damn good results.
>> And all of them
succeeded in remote viewing.
Doctors Puthoff and
Targ do not know how.
And so maybe one of the
most important things
about the work done
here is that it
has been published
in one of the most
conservative and prestigious
scientific journals
in the world with this note.
"Few readers will finish without
wondering for at least a moment
if indeed ESP might
be possible after all.
What a difference that
would make to us all."
Jack Perkins, NBC News, Stanford
Research Institute, California.
>> Ingo was really the father
of remote viewing in the modern
era.
Before Ingo, people
were describing
the picture in the envelope.
>> Square.
>> Good guess, but wrong.
>> He said, if I want to
see what's in the envelope,
I'll open the envelope.
I can focus my attention
anywhere on the planet.
Give me something
interesting to look at.
>> And he threatened to quit.
And so we asked him,
well, what do you mean?
What would you like to do?
And he says, just
send somebody out
in the San Francisco
Bay area, and I'll
describe where they are.
>> Well, it takes a lot of
guts to accept a challenge like
this.
The psychics involved
could sort of
get into it at a creative
level and discover
things very distant
from themselves
and then go find out if
they were really there.
>> Well, we had, by now, 30
analysts, not scientists,
in CIA, and maybe six or seven
scientists in CIA talking about
these initial dozen or so
results of these anecdotal
situations.
>> We began by speaking of some
kind of a, almost a psychic arm
is raised here.
Is there any real
application to this?
>> At that time, there
were rumors, certainly,
that the government
was doing something,
but nobody actually
knew what was going on.
>> Why are the intelligence
communities chasing after this
thing called remote viewing?
What if there are no secrets?
What's really going on here?
>> They had to put resources on
something that sounded crazy.
That's what it was.
And we would all talk
about them and say, well, I
know I didn't lie.
I know you didn't lie.
And we'd get polygraphed
once in a while.
And it became clear
we weren't lying.
That wasn't the issue.
Well, what's going on?
>> These people from
CIA were very concerned.
They had one goal in mind, to
prove that it was nonsense.
Well, we've looked
into your background.
You've had these high
security clearances.
You've been polygraphed.
We know we can trust you.
The Russians have
been spending millions
of dollars over a decade at
some of their best institutes
investigating so-called ESP.
No scientists in
America even believe
there is such a thing as ESP.
In fact, it was because the
Soviets had a completely
materialistic viewpoint.
Even in Lenin's writings, he
said since consciousness isn't
observable, it must be physical,
and therefore, physical things
must have consciousness.
And so he thought even atoms
had some level of consciousness.
>> And then the
question becomes,
how close does it have
to be for you to see it?
Can you see it in this room?
In the next?
How about-- can you see
on the other side of town?
The question began to start
to formulate about distance.
>> Maybe, like everything
else that we know physically,
it's quantum mechanical.
That means it's
spread out everywhere.
It's not in spacetime anymore.
So exactly the
same way that I can
focus on my name
being spoken, there's
something about
attention that I can
use in order to narrow in and
pay attention to something.
So if I want to pay
attention to what's
happening on Pluto
a million years ago,
I should be able to do that.
That's kind of what
the remote viewers do.
I mean, Ingo Swann was
looking at Jupiter nine months
before Voyager got there,
and correctly described rings
that no astronomer had ever
seen or even suspected.
So how did he do that?
Well, it suggests that the
rings of Jupiter was in his head
already.
This becomes a very
materialistic way
of thinking about what's
going on, but who cares?
I mean, I'm interested
in what the truth is.
>> We don't know how
to evaluate this.
We don't know if it's
a threat or what.
>> I would say the difference
between the American scientific
community and the Soviet is
that at the highest levels
in the Soviet
scientific community,
psychic research is taken
seriously and there's no doubt
about it.
>> And you're claiming in
this country, it is not?
>> I would say in
this country it's not,
because people are worried about
the so-called giggle potential.
>> Our normal socialization,
being a psychologist now,
is that stuff like
ESP is nonsense.
It can't happen.
So if somebody
tells you to do it,
they're asking something stupid.
>> And they banged a
telephone book size thing down
at the table.
Paraphysics R&D Warsaw Pact
from the Defense Intelligence
Agency.
When I thumbed through
that, and saw all the work
that was going on.
>> It said the CIA was
tracking all of these people.
>> Yeah.
In this case, it was DIA.
>> Here is the report that I
finally wrote that summarized
everything we could
find at that time,
and it was called Key
Intelligence Question number 9.
I labeled it
paraphysics, because I
had to find a word that allowed
us at the Foreign Technology
Division to sense that there
is a legitimate physics
connection here.
>> So let's just randomly,
like a government support
for parapsychics research.
>> Paraphysics.
Paraphysics.
Returning with stories
of official government
support for such research.
In fact, such support seems
unquestioned by anyone.
All of the Soviet centers, of
course, are government-funded.
1971.
>> That's right.
So especially over
there, since everything
was government-funded, you
had to take it more seriously.
>> In principle, this document
forms more policy than anything
else that goes on in the
intelligence community.
Why should the intelligence
community be interested in it?
To access information,
in a generic sense.
You can use it for
communications,
like through remote
places, submarines,
and that came up later.
I thought, you know, they'd
laugh me out of the room.
>> So what was their
reaction when you said that?
>> Positive.
It was positive.
>> You got a positive reaction?
>> Yes.
They said, hey,
this is good stuff.
Follow it.
>> When he wrote
his first report,
Dale Graff had no idea
what he was getting Defense
Intelligence into.
Despite a series of remote
viewing experiments that
beat the odds at over
1 million to one,
the CIA was still skeptical.
>> The Army, CIA, DIA, they
all had remote viewing programs
eventually, but it all
began with the NSA break-in.
>> The real operational
work began not with the bang
of bullets and bombs,
but with a whisper.
>> I'm sorry, actually
I misdirected you.
You were on the right--
no, no, we should be up there.
>> About two psychics and two
laser physicists that broke
into the most secret NSA
site that ever existed.
It was a whisper
that would eventually
be heard around the world.
The CIA had a new secret weapon.
>> There was a hiatus, and
then Sugar Grove came along,
and somebody says this
cockamamie thing, well,
now what we're doing is
we're doing a remote viewing
by coordinates.
And I say what?
>> It was code named SCANATE.
>> The SCANATE program
was started by Ingo Swann.
And in that program
we were using
coordinate remote viewing.
A viewer described
what was located
at any geographical coordinate
of latitude and longitude
and would then
describe what's there.
>> And they tell
me what this is.
And I say something
like, well, you're
going to have to
prove that to me.
And the door opened at
the end of the hallway,
and a guy walks out.
Could you give me
some coordinates?
Just map coordinates of
a place that you know.
He says, this will do it.
He says I'm positive
you don't know anything
about what's there.
I said perfect,
perfect, perfect.
I took him.
>> And then Kit gave Hal those
coordinates that nobody knew
about.
>> From Ingo's standpoint,
he said this is really a sexy
target.
It's got all kinds of antennas.
Seems like a very hush-hush
place, very military.
And he drew how
things were laid out.
>> The results came back so
specific on paper that I was
just, like, I was
kind of nonplussed.
It included the diagram, the
guardhouse, accordion doors
that roll up big enough
to put a Jeep through.
Four stories below,
hallway, cipher lock,
and I took it to my
colleague Dave, who
would give me the
coordinates, and I said, here.
He said man, Green,
this is nonsense.
I said, are you
really, really sure?
And he said, man, I gave you
the coordinates of the log cabin
I just built in West Virginia.
So I called up my colleagues,
and I gave them the results.
And I'm sick of it.
And just before I hung up,
a fellow I was talking to,
who I can't name, but whose
initials were Russ Targ,
said that's really too bad.
It's really too bad.
Really too bad.
The other guy found
the same thing.
>> Early in the SRI program,
there had been some publicity,
and Pat Price had read about it.
That happened to
be right when we
had been asked to target
the West Virginia site.
So it was over the
telephone, saying, you know,
I used to be a
police commissioner
or something like
that in Burbank,
and sometimes I would
get intuitive flashes
about some crime scene
that we were working on,
and it would turn
out I would be right.
Maybe I should be a subject.
>> SRI comes up with Pat Price.
He had a map over his desk,
and he had a bunch of pins
on the map of the
world, and the pins
were all stuck in the ocean.
And I asked him, I said,
Pat, what are all those pins?
They're scattered all around.
He said, oh, I'm following
all the nuclear submarines
in the world, and I move pins
around, and I relocate them.
For an intelligence
officer, I mean,
this would be one of the most
fundamental breakthroughs
in Naval intelligence if you
could follow all the submarines
in the world.
>> Pat Price was brought in
independently to describe
the same target location and
went on to read documents
hidden in the vault three
floors below the surface.
>> And so that's
really interesting.
You know, OK, talk, talk,
talk, what did you say?
And I drove to the coordinates,
and I found the cabin.
And 100 meters down the
road, I found a dirt road
from the cabin.
I drove down it.
Found the guardhouse, found the
dish, found the accordion door.
>> This Naval installation's
purpose is to perform
communications research and
development for the US Navy,
the Department of Defense,
and various elements of the US
government.
>> I reported that.
It got to the Office of
Research and Development,
and it got to the office of OTS.
And there was a
huge controversy.
And it started as
very small ball.
>> But what the person
who picked the target
didn't realize was just
right over the ridge,
a mile or so away,
whatever it was,
was this super secret facility
for picking up Russian
satellite information
as it went overhead.
And so both of them
said, ah, maybe that's
what they want us to describe.
>> In the 1960s, Sugar Grove
became one of the NSA's most
important Cold War
listening facilities.
And then the whole
thing blew up.
>> But remember, it was about
what was inside that building.
File folders with
the following names.
I remember that they were all
associated with a pool game,
like playing pool or billiards.
>> Filing cabinet on the north
wall labeled Operation Pool
Cue.
Four ball, eight ball, rack up.
I'm saying, you know, this
is reminiscent of a visit
to the place that Kit took him.
>> Within 24, 48 hours, I had
security officers in my office
at headquarters, and they were
grim-faced and they were upset.
They had been told--
I was told this officially,
it's been made public.
The filing cabinets were there.
They were green.
There were file folders.
And they had the exact three
names on the file folders.
Now, that was the first
thing that was important,
is that they were correct.
However those guys out in
California got the code names,
they got code names that
were part of a special access
program.
Not just code names, they got
special access program code
names, which were
classified top secret.
Their names were
>> We were then descended upon
by all the law enforcement
in the United States.
>> We had government agencies
from NSA and CIA coming
to visit us and find out why
the CIA had targeted a group
of psychics to go
spying on the NSA.
>> So I didn't know whether to
be sick to my stomach or what
to do.
>> So it wasn't just Kit Green,
it was the owners of the site.
And you know some
of it, like some
of the names that I told you,
turned out to be accurate.
And so the first
concern, a security leak.
Somebody has let
this information out.
>> If I was Director
of Intelligence,
or even the President, and I was
briefed on what you just told
me about those code words,
I would think that this was
either a propaganda thing, or I
would think that there's a guy
who could probably look inside
a nuclear missile silo and give
me the launch codes.
And that guy is really important
and potentially dangerous.
It's either a
hoax, or it's real.
>> I know.
Now if, you're asking me where
I sit, it's in the latter.
>> You know, what
really is going on here?
Do we have a
counterintelligence issue,
where people can do this
sort of stuff against us?
And of course the
other side is hey,
can we do it against
somebody else?
>> How would it be if we spent
half of our time on operational
targets for the CIA, and half
of our time doing research?
And he said, I understand
what you want to do.
That would be fair.
>> Everybody knew that there
had to be some foundational
science, or this stuff
would never be accepted.
>> Stanford Research
Institute has been conducting
an experimental program in
the field of psychoenergetic
effect.
>> I had Hal and Russ
bring Uri Geller to me,
who was supposedly one of the
psychokinetic people who could
take and bend spoons and do
other magic kind of things with
materials.
And we had an experiment set up.
>> 15 drawings were placed
in double-sealed envelopes
in a safe for which none
of the experimenters had
the combination.
This is Geller's representation
of what he believed
was sealed in the envelope.
This is the most off-target
of the drawings that he did.
As you can see, he is
quite elated about getting
the right answer.
>> Hey, this is real.
Don't you try to debunk this
, because it is scientifically
proven.
>> And I can tell you the Agency
did a little background check
on Uri and found out that he
might be working for some other
government, shall we say.
And so he was just dropped.
There were security concerns.
>> The worry was that there was
national security information
that could be gathered.
>> What he said was that he
mushed his head into a safe,
and these words
popped into his mind.
When a CIA analyst reads
this and says, what?
Does that mean if I have
a document on my desk,
that I consider highly sensitive
and classified, that there
could be some Russian psychic
1,000 miles away reproducing
what I'm looking at?
>> Suddenly, the lights came on,
and we had CIA money and fresh
support for our research.
Our CIA handlers warned us
to be wary of bugs, phone
taps, and even honey pots.
We could see anywhere, and
they had unlimited resources
to back up our claims.
We even had a degree of fame
among those in the know.
It was like a dream come true.
>> With new funding and
assignments from the CIA,
it seemed as if Hal and
Russell could do no wrong.
>> What kind of place do
you experience them at?
>> Attorney General from
somewhere in northern
California came to us and said,
would you help us with this
case?
She's been kidnapped.
>> The heiress had been
kidnapped from her Berkeley
apartment.
As we walked in, the police were
very excited, and they said,
we have a lot of questions
we want to ask you.
And Price said, let me
show you how we do this.
Let me see a mug book.
And he put his finger on
Donald DeFreeze and said,
that's the ringleader.
The Berkeley police
said, we know who he is.
He walked away from a minimum
security prison a year ago.
>> And he said, you know, this
is not your regular kidnapping
for money.
This is some kind
of political thing.
>> And then she's photographed
robbing banks alongside the--
you know, with an AK-47
or something like that,
with the other crooks.
>> I get this image
of crosshairs.
Looking at crosshairs.
We're getting closer.
It's more like an intersection.
He told us where the car that
they had kidnapped her in
had been left.
>> Across the freeway are two
large white gas storage tanks,
and one of the detectives said,
well, I know where that is.
>> So the policemen ran out,
and they actually found the car
where he said.
>> And we went to a shack they
thought might be a hideout.
I had the experience of
the detective handing
me his sidearm, and said, you
know how to fire a pistol?
And I said, I happen
to own an automatic.
Yes I do.
So he didn't realize he'd be
handing Mr. Magoo an automatic
so that I could cover his back.
>> What a handsome
walking stick.
>> This was an assignment
outside my job description.
>> Wonderful continental flavor.
>> We were basically
detectives on the case.
On the street, boots on
the ground, so to speak.
>> Problem was that the Berkeley
police did not cooperate with
the Alameda Sheriff's
department, the county Sheriff,
and neither of them were
cooperating with the FBI.
>> It was only after the entire
thing was resolved we found out
that that indeed was the area
where she was being kept,
and the layout in the
apartment was as he described.
And in fact, she was
being kept in a closet.
>> And we got a formal
commendation from the Berkeley
police department.
Unfortunately, a lot of people
got killed in the meantime.
>> They attracted not only
fans in law enforcement.
>> The CIA had gotten hold
of Soviet documents in which
our names were in there as
targets to betray and to be
turned if possible.
So we said, well, then we have
to take this whole thing very
seriously.
>> And I began to
feel frightened.
It felt like penetrating
into a dangerous area.
>> When he died, he was out
in Las Vegas. (ECHOING) Died,
he was out in Las Vegas.
>> Medical circumstances
would admit to a coronary,
and would admit to what
he said he suffered from,
which was poisoning.
Particularly, he
said food poisoning.
>> Later on,
somebody said, well,
you know the KGB did him in.
And I said, oh yeah, I hear
these rumors I have no reason
to believe that.
>> This appears to be a
state-sponsored assassination
attempt.
Statement of the Prime Minister.
>> But now, eight days
on, Theresa May came
to the Commons.
In her hands, one of the
most remarkable statements
she's delivered
as Prime Minister.
>> It is now clear that Mr.
Skripal and his daughter were
poisoned with a military grade
nerve agent of a type developed
by Russia.
This is part of a group of
nerve agents known as Novichok.
>> It causes suffocation
and heart failure.
>> I said, what do you mean?
They said, well, there was
a TV program or something,
I mean this was a decade later,
where they were interviewing
an ex-KGB agent who had been
involved with an assassination
squad.
And the interviewer had asked
him, you know, what do you do?
How do you carry
out assassinations?
If we had somebody
who was a target,
we'd find out what their
medical profile was,
and then we would
do something that
would cause that medical
condition to go south quickly.
And then it would
just be assumed
there was a medical
event, and that way we
wouldn't be found out.
And so the interviewer--
I'm told, I haven't
seen this program yet.
I haven't been able to find it--
the interviewer said,
well, did you ever
actually use that approach?
And they said, yeah, once on a
psychic who worked for the CIA.
>> Arrived at the scene.
>> Our husbands and wives.
>> They really do, for instance,
have a Soviet experiment
in remote strangulation.
>> Larissa Vilenskaya was put in
charge of monitoring SRI's ESP
work from Moscow.
>> Karmensky was in Moscow,
and Nikolai was in Leningrad.
Karmensky imagined that he
tried to strangle Nikolai.
Nikolai was on
the way to, and he
felt that he couldn't breathe.
He was on the edge
of unconscious state,
and suddenly
everything disappeared
just because Karmensky in Moscow
stopped transmit this image.
>> I
>> Do solemnly swear
>> I'm well to the
best of my ability
>> To preserve,
>> Protect,
>> And defend the Constitution
>> Of the United States,
>> So help me God.
>> I got frustrated as I
realized I may be trapped
in our own success.
Everything was now a secret.
I couldn't even tell my family.
Our phones might be tapped.
>> Only thing secret
about this program--
what is it with
the secret program?
But we weren't
publishing anything.
We went to the CIA
handlers and said, look,
you've got to let us publish
some of these experiments.
Everyone's beginning to
say well, gee, maybe it's
a secret program.
So we got their
permission to put together
a series of our Bay Area
remote viewing experiments
and publish it.
>> They wouldn't let us
publish the hot stuff,
and they didn't care about
the bigger implications
of our work.
Maybe I had made a
deal with the devil.
>> I said, have him go
back and get some more.
Well, the obvious thing
was to do something
on the operational side.
So I started searching
around for a project that
would have some impact.
It was a research facility.
That was all that we
were going to tell them.
>> So this was our very first,
number one, Soviet site.
Pat Price was the remote
viewer in this case.
The CIA people came and just
gave us coordinates and said,
look here.
>> And so he leans
back in his chair,
puts his glasses on, and I'm
looking at him and I'm saying
to myself, why does
he put his glasses?
He said, I put my
glasses on because I
can see better remotely
when I have my glasses on.
And I'm sitting there
thinking, yeah, OK.
>> We sat down with our coffee,
and I said here is the target,
Pat.
What do you see?
>> Next morning, they
came back with a sketch.
>> And we showed
him the picture.
>> So I go over and I say, well,
I've got this science fiction
fantasy crane.
>> Well, we looked at
that and, you know,
were quite frankly astounded
at the similarities.
>> And he unrolled a big
picture of an R&D facility,
and right in the middle of
this facility was a photograph
of a giant gantry crane.
>> So the sketch on the
left is what Price produced.
And this one is the one that is
derived from the photographic--
or from the sketch from
the photographic image.
He said, oh, this
was a huge crane.
He said, I saw
somebody walk by it,
and the guy only came up
to the axle or something,
on the wheels, or up to
the top of the wheels.
Pat, what do you see
about underground?
>> He said, one of the big
things they're doing here is
making these 60 foot
spheres out of steel.
They're actually 58 feet.
>> What I was told was the
analysts of Semipalatinsk did
not know about the gores.
>> They finally rolled out a
60-foot diameter steel sphere
that was part of a containment
vessel for a particle beam
weapon to shoot down American
surveillance satellites.
Exactly what Price described.
>> The end game is this
big review occurs of all
operations-oriented testing from
a contractor like SRI should
stop.
So in other words,
CIA's decision
was because of
security concerns.
They were going to cut out SRI
and work with Pat directly,
so they did so.
>> The CIA moved Pat Price
to a farm on the outskirts
of Washington.
He was doing day to
day spying for the CIA.
>> We've broken into some
foreign embassies in foreign
countries, and we bugged them.
And we have the
operational files.
So what we did is
we got Pat Price,
and we brought one
of the people who
had made this entry
into the room with Pat.
So we gave him a photograph of
the outside of the building,
but the goal of those
operational people
was to find the code room of the
embassy and basically bug it.
So they needed to get in the
embassy, find it, place a bug,
and get out before the guards
opened up the next morning.
He supposedly located
the physical place
in the embassy that
was the code room area.
So according to the operations
guy, yeah, he found the place,
and they should use him again.
He was inside the code room.
>> Sonning Court.
Turn up the street.
And that's it.
So the Wizard of Sonning Court.
>> Hello.
Just dropping off Russell.
>> Come in.
>> Thank you.
>> Uri Geller knows a
lot about code rooms.
Uri says he spent a long
time working facade,
so perhaps he knows what
happened to Pat Price as well.
>> If you can tell me,
what was the meeting about?
What were you doing in the
secret room in the capitol?
>> OK, there actually--
>> You must have been
briefing somebody.
>> Yes.
Actually, there were 10 there.
There are probably two
or three shielded rooms
at different levels,
but it's actually
in the capitol dome,
the shielded room.
It is a room where no
eavesdropping can take place,
because the walls are leaded, et
cetera, all kinds of materials.
Even the plugs are different.
And it can also
be a wine cellar,
so while doing secret work, you
can drink wine and get drunk.
>> OK, well, I wanted to--
a shielded room with a
perfect conversation.
>> Yes.
>> And I want to talk to you
about the death of Pat Price.
>> And Pat comes in with his
description of an underwater
sabotage training facility
several kilometers away from
the sea coast.
And this information was
passed on to the Libyan desk.
They saw a facility,
basically, where he said,
that they hadn't seen before,
and a few days later Pat Price
died.
This was the end of Pat Price.
>> CIA hired Price away from us,
and four months after joining
the CIA, Price was dead.
>> And the big question
is was he killed,
or was it a natural death?
>> Like in the movies.
You want to know, did he
jump, or was he pushed?
>> What do you think?
>> The emergency department
people said that there was
an individual that came in
with him with a briefcase that
showed the attending physician
in the emergency room his
recent EKGs from Greenbrier,
which was the facility that I
knew that we'd taken him to to
get his cardiological workup
some months ago.
And basically
said, look, the guy
had rampant serious
coronary artery disease.
He had a heart attack.
So even though he died
unattended in a hotel room,
they decided, they meaning
the hospital and the police,
to not make it a
medical examiner case.
So they didn't do an autopsy,
although that's not correct,
and the man disappeared with
the briefcase with the notes.
They never took
any records of it.
Body was removed and cremated.
And then they called his wife.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah, wow.
>> Price was known to
have a heart condition,
and he may have
had a heart attack.
>> That's it.
Next.
>> The Russians may
have killed him.
>> And deferred.
>> My opinion is the CIA
discovered quickly they had
a terrible problem.
>> After Price's death, it
emerged that his church may
have been attempting to
blackmail the IRS using
classified documents.
>> There's a file cabinet
that's got a folder full of this
stuff, and this church had a
problem with the government.
He would go back to
his church officials
and immediately give
them a debriefing
of everything that he said
and everything that I said.
Here the guy who was walking
on water was a traitor.
>> I do not think he was
a spy for his church.
>> You know, I was
shocked and devastated,
because I had no
idea about this.
>> If he walks into the
president's office and reads
a nuclear code, if it turns
out that Superman is a double
agent, what do you do?
>> If he didn't understand and
misinterpreted what it was that
he could tell his confessor in
his church, I forgive him that.
That's not Pat's fault.
>> Knowing intelligence,
knowing what's happening around
the world, and having
worked for certain agencies,
I know a little more
about this story.
>> That's exactly why I
wanted to talk to you.
>> And people who are so
valuable are never taken out.
They tempt them with
amazing circumstantial--
moneys, dwellings,
houses, to work for them.
They would never.
This is like killing the
goose that lays golden eggs.
>> Devices which would have
enabled the CIA to use this
poison for killing people.
>> Does this pistol
fire the dart?
>> Yes it does, mister chairman,
and a special one was developed
which potentially would be able
to enter the target without
perception.
>> Well, the CIA had a heart
attack gun that was revealed.
>> OK, now, the CIA is not in
the business of killing people.
>> Well, they were in the
business of making a very
complicated killing machine.
And they got a lot
of trouble for that.
I saw Pat shortly
before he was killed.
He was coming to see us.
>> Yes.
>> But before he left, he called
several of his friends to say
goodbye in an odd way.
>> So in short, he
predicted his own death.
>> And he purchased a $1 million
term life insurance to give
to his wife Ann at the airport.
>> You see, I didn't know that.
Interesting.
>> And he changed his trip to
visit his son in Salt Lake.
>> Maybe he had a psychic
feeling that he was about
to die.
He must have been one of the
greatest psychics in the world.
>> Yes.
>> Some Army remote
viewers tasked themselves
on Price's death years later
and decided he was still alive
and at work.
Of course, this was
just speculation.
>> It was entirely unmarked.
He deserved better than that.
>> Shortly after that, Hal and
I were called back to Washington
for an investigation.
>> What the CIA had hoped
to squash by eliminating
SRI's contract would only
grow after an "Aviation Week"
article released after Pat's
death perfectly matched his
description of the
gores of Semipalatinsk,
something no one else
in US intelligence knew.
This shook the halls of power
and set into motion new fears
about Russian psychic spies.
>> The question is why?
What was happening in
July, August of last year?
>> The House Committee on
Intelligence Oversight decided
it must be a security leak that
gave the California psychics
information that no one in
the rest of the intelligence
community had.
>> Well actually, I was excited
about the opportunity to brief
them, because by this
point in our career,
the more people at high levels
who knew about what we were
doing, the more support
there was to make sure that
the program moved forward.
>> Unfortunately, you will
learn today that these efforts
by Russia to discredit the US
and weaken the West are not
new.
>> All I can say is that
if the results were faked,
our security system
doesn't work.
What these persons
saw was confirmed
by aerial photography.
There's no way they
could have been faked.
>> There are four senators
out there fighting to keep it
going.
>> What's next?
Are we looking at
a new Iron Curtain
descending across
Eastern Europe?
>> And we were supported
for another decade.
>> One physicist said there was
no point in teaching physics
anymore, because we'd learned
all there was to know.
And now we look back and realize
that what we thought we knew
was the tiniest fragment.
>> Although the CIA publicly
denigrated the idea of remote
viewing and claimed to end
interest in the subject after
the death of Pat Price,
SRI's rising profile led
to partnerships with
every single branch
of the intelligence community.
Defense Intelligence Agency took
on a contract with the US Army
in 1978.
>> It begins.
But this being the Army, it
really starts with a drill,
naturally.
>> Over 3,000 troops
in Fort Meade,
Maryland were screened by Army
intelligence to find the top
six that would
spearhead the program.
>> That first day
in the company.
>> These were
grunts, regular guys,
Vietnam vets picked because
they had a knack for avoiding
landmines.
And the CIA didn't like it.
It caused leaks.
The most decorated
was remote viewer 001,
Chief Warrant Officer
Joe McMoneagle.
>> The Stanford Art Museum was
Joe McMoneagle's first ever
remote viewing.
We then did five
more trials with him.
Altogether, we did 36 trials
with the six Army volunteers.
Out of the 36 trials,
these officers
were able to get 19 first
place matches where one would
expect only six by chance.
The odds of such an excellent
result is better than one
in a million.
>> Joe got the Legion of Merit.
That is a very big deal.
It is the second highest
non-combatant award
that the military gives.
He has done more live
to tape remote viewings
than anybody else alive.
>> He lives at the top of the
mountain where every great
prophet lives.
>> He was the first to speak out
when parts of the program were
publicly outed in 1995 and
subsequently denigrated
by the CIA.
>> It may have helped locate
American hostages in Iran.
>> There were two or three
others that were hauled away
from the embassy, and no one
seemed to know exactly where
that was, but we were
instrumental in helping
identify that location.
>> I was paid to do remote
viewing by the US Army for six
straight years.
>> And indeed, he turned out
to be one of the most psychic
people we ever worked with.
>> You can actually take out
of thin air information about
something you have absolutely no
access to just using your mind.
Remote viewing was first
brought to my attention
by Skip Atwater.
>> It occurred to me.
I had been nine
or 10 years doing
this counterintelligence work
when I said Colonel Webb,
I brought this book
called "Mind Reach"
and if what they say
in this book is true,
there is a huge gap in our
counterintelligence effort
here.
I left the book "Mind
Reach" with him,
and the next day I came in
and he says, you're right.
If this is true, what's
being said in this book,
this is something that
we aren't attending to.
This might, in fact be a threat
to the intelligence community.
>> One of our greatest
operational successes was when
Joe McMoneagle pinpointed and
described an enormous Russian
submarine in a location where
it was totally unexpected.
>> There was a very,
very large building.
We didn't have enough
intelligence by ordinary means
to know what is being
built inside that building.
>> The building was hundreds
of yards from the water.
What I decided
through remote viewing
was that they were probably
constructing a new submarine,
and the submarine was unique
in that it had twin hulls.
The hulls were actually
stuck together this way,
so it was a twin-hulled,
very wide submarine.
It was half again larger than
any submarine in existence
at the time.
It had dozens of
new capabilities,
and I said that they're
going to launch in 120 days.
And this was all disagreed
with by the senior officer
from the CIA.
He made arrangements to look
at the area 114 days later,
and they in fact had launched
the largest submarine
ever built in history.
It's called the TK-089, the
Typhoon-class submarine.
The only response we
got from that individual
was it was a lucky guess.
And that individual
is Robert Gates.
>> Did you at any time
feel that this was worth
the taxpayers' money?
>> Well, all I can say
is that in the 20 years,
or 25 years that I was perhaps
in a position to be aware,
I don't know of a single
instance where it is documented
that this kind of activity
contributed in any significant
way to a policy decision or even
to informing policymakers about
important information.
>> In October 1983, Secretary
of Army John Marsh was briefed
by Lieutenant Colonel
Busby of INSCOM.
His report stated that 350 of
700 remote viewing missions,
or 50%, were deemed to
possess intelligence value,
and 85% showed positive
evidence for remote viewing.
>> We probably collected
more intelligence on that one
submarine in four days than
the entire Soviet sub pack.
What you have to
understand is the program
operated year-to-year
based on its successes, not
its failures.
And the fact that it was
funded on a year-to-year basis
speaks loudly as to why
it existed for 20 years.
And the chief proponent
in terms of tasking,
or the one agency that probably
used more remote viewing
than any other
agency, was the CIA.
>> I'm familiar with
that quote of Gates.
There's nothing.
We closed the program because
it didn't amount to anything.
Let me just read this
one thing I've got here.
Joe got the Legion of Merit,
and Joe upon his retirement
got this.
"While with his command,
he used his talents
and expertise in the execution
of more than 200 missions
addressing over 150 essential
elements of information.
These EEI," essential
elements of information,
"contained critical
intelligence reported
at the highest echelons of
our military and government,
including such national
level agencies as the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, DIA, NSA, CIA,
DEA, and the Secret Service,
producing crucial and
vital intelligence
unavailable from
any other source."
That would tend to
suggest that Gates was not
telling the truth.
>> We had the total support of
five administrations in a row.
Carter stood up and said,
we did this wonderful thing
when they found
the Tupolev bomber.
And the reporter said,
how did you find it?
He said, we used our psychics.
>> We're on our way to see
President Carter and talk with
him about our mission to find a
downed Russian bomber in Zaire.
We helped him pull the Soviet
bomber out of the jungle
before the Soviets could find
it, thus revealing knowledge,
as he did in his
recent autobiography.
>> One time we had a small plane
go down somewhere in Africa,
and we needed it very much to
find out where that plane had
crashed.
And we were not able to
find it by surveillance,
so the director of the CIA heard
about a woman in California
that was a medium or something,
I don't know the title for her,
and she gave him the
latitude and longitude
of the plane's whereabouts.
We located the plane
where she said it was.
And that's the only
time that I have ever
experienced something
that was inexplicable
while I was President.
>> One evening, I'm
called into the office.
I was working late.
And they said, we understand
that you have some people that
can find things.
I said yeah, I have
the SRI contract.
There are people on staff there.
They said, well, this is
really a top secret burn
before reading kind of project.
Here's a picture of an
airplane that's missing,
and how can we get into
Africa and get to the airplane
before the Soviets get there?
It was a defector.
He just took this airplane
south until he thought
it ran out of fuel
and punched out,
and the airplane kept going.
But it still had fuel.
That's why they
couldn't find it.
It wasn't there.
I said, well, it's
because you're
looking in the wrong place.
Look over here.
Because by this time, the
entire intelligence community
was involved.
She drew this.
So I took the sketch,
this is the sketch,
and I handed it to
the search team.
And so I'm looking
at this huge map,
and it's 200 miles this
way, 200 miles down.
So she looks at that map,
and goes up to the map
and said, over here.
Here's where it is the X where
the pin went into the map.
They sent a helicopter out
to investigate the area.
And shortly after
they landed, a native
comes out of the jungle
carrying a piece of metal.
And it turned out it was
from the airplane that
crashed and was within
about a mile of where it
was, where the actual site was.
All the information
was in the field
before the airplane
was found, and the CIA
did a special check
on that to make sure,
and so did NSA, to make sure
that my story did hold water.
The information was there
before we knew where it was.
>> The woman who
drew the sketch,
referenced by Dale
and President Carter,
was an Air Force officer.
She and an SRI
remote viewer, also
crucial to the case's success,
have never come forward.
The research out of SRI
showed that remote viewing had
no predictable
scientific limits,
or even theories to explain it.
As the team racked up
success after success,
higher and higher up
the chain of command
the question was asked, how can
any of this even be possible?
>> I said, well, we've done
this remote viewing experiment,
and the results are
very significant.
He said, one of
those guys is blind,
and the other one's crazy.
>> The perfect team for
examining psychic abilities.
>> That's what I thought.
Oh boy.
>> There's of course no way to
deal with people who don't want
to know.
>> A storm starts brewing, and
we get a new director of Office
of Research and Development.
He could not accept the
reality of paranormal activity.
He said he knew that
this was not real.
>> And a guy in the back
room jumped up and said,
I know what this is.
Somebody is taking notes to
see which of us are gullible.
Well, whoever is
taking notes, I want
you to know I'm not
buying any of this.
And he marched out.
>> A week later, I came back
and I said, did you evaluate it?
Can you tell me what
you thought about it?
And he said, no, I
didn't evaluate it.
And he said, I'm not going to.
And I said, what?
>> We're fundamentalists.
There may be something to
it, but it may be demonic.
We don't want anything
to do with this.
>> You are working with
people who are in league with
the devil and you're part
of the Antichrist movement.
And I picked up the
data and walked out.
>> Deniers who think there is no
consciousness beyond our skulls
are a powerful force
in American society,
are anti-science because they
do not respect or accept facts.
They are people
whose worldview is
based on faith of a very
particular kind and belief
in dogma.
>> It is about dogma.
Absolutely.
From a religious standpoint,
all the way down.
I mean, people that are
afraid of it, which is
half the people on the planet.
It's so damaging.
I had a senior senator in
camera, in a meeting in camera,
stand up and say you, sir, are
doing the work of the devil,
and you will burn in
the fires of hell.
And walk out.
That's a senior lawmaker.
And then in the same meeting
when we broke for coffee, I
had another senior lawmaker
hug me and whisper in my ear,
you're doing God's work, son.
Now which one scares
you the worst?
>> I think psi
research is important,
because it's an essential part
of reality which some science
hasn't yet taken note of.
Furthermore, there's a lot
of misconception about it.
People just assuming
without any proof
that there's no such thing.
It's just a piece of dogma,
and science should not
be about dogma.
>> How many people say they've
witnessed things that do not
fit within a
materialistic paradigm,
and then they're told you're
deluded because your experience
doesn't conform to our dogma?
This is so fundamentally
anti-scientific it's
utterly appalling.
So once again this troubled
me, because I love science,
and I respect this tremendous
evolution of science
for the last 400 years.
But when people speaking with
the authority of science say,
for example, that all
experiences can only be
functions of the brain, and if
you have any experiences that
cannot be explained within
a materialistic paradigm,
you're deluded, then this
is dehumanizing, arrogant,
pompous, and close-minded, and
those terms should never come
in the same paragraph of
defining and explaining
science.
When the evidence just
gets to be overwhelming,
and the groundswell
here is growing,
I would say before
too long, if you still
insist that the mind is nothing
more than an emergent property
of the brain, it will
be widely recognized
you are just ignorant.
>> And the key point about
physics is physics is always
evolving.
Our knowledge of physics
is always expanding.
And phenomena which people
reject as impossible today
may not be rejected as
impossible tomorrow,
because tomorrow we'll have
a more extensive theory
of physics.
>> Enter this next
wonderful reality,
and the most controversial
of the people.
And it shocked me that they
found anything to object to.
This is a hard core scientist.
>> I'm very happy to be here.
My name is Russell Targ,
and I'm a physicist.
And it's my great
pleasure to tell you
about the remarkable work we did
at Stanford Research Institute
investigating psychic ability.
I had a small
Wikipedia biographical
page that described that
I was born in Chicago,
went to Columbia, and
worked with Hal Puthoff
on the pseudoscience
called remote viewing.
So we had a chance for fish
and chips and a cup of tea.
We must be in England finally.
>> That's right.
>> There's a time
when I was ill,
and I didn't want my biography
to be that one-dimensional,
so I wrote in that I had been
a pioneer in the development
of the laser and published
many, many papers in lasers.
And the Wikipedia masters kept
erasing all my laser paper.
They said to me, people are not
interested in your laser work.
We just want to know about your
work with the pseudoscience.
And I said, well,
most of my life
has been spent with lasers.
And they wouldn't
allow me to do that.
They banned me from Wikipedia.
And finally I got the help
of Brian Josephson, and only
through Josephson's intercession
I got to bring my biography up
to speed.
>> Do you think that
consciousness is built
into quantum theory?
>> This of course is extremely
heretical, but fortunately,
I've not only got
tenure, but I've retired,
so I don't need to worry
about being a heretic.
>> I'm not with you, exactly.
I saw it.
Anyway, are these
taking your picture?
>> Yes.
>> You're being
interviewed, are you?
>> I was, yes.
>> Pardon?
>> You were.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
What's it to do with with?
>> Well, it's really
about some research work.
>> What?
>> Research work.
>> Research.
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> You're able finally to
tell the complete truth.
>> Well actually, people
would probably not contemplate
getting rid of a
Nobel Prize winner,
so I more or less had
freedom in what I could do.
Funding was a different matter.
They actually told
certain people,
we'll fund you if you work with
anybody other than Josephson.
>> Stop!
Will you stop these fools?
I'm not crazy.
Make them listen to me
before it's too late.
>> By and large, the critics
who've been interested enough
in our work to come
to our laboratory,
we have asked them to take part
in experiments and experience
remote viewing themselves, which
is often very accurate indeed.
>> One of the biggest skeptics
was undersecretary of defense
Walter LeBerge, who kept hearing
leaks about the mad scientist
of Menlo Park.
So he decided to pay a visit
in his Air Force helicopter,
landing on the SRI campus lawn
and causing quite the dust-up
to Hal and Russ's low profile.
Although he thought
it ridiculous,
LeBerge allowed himself
to become a subject,
and despite no prior
psychic experience,
he correctly and in great detail
imagined where his attach was
hiding.
He then became one of the
team's biggest supporters,
along with other
senators, congressmen,
and generals who
dropped in on the lab
and got similar results.
It was becoming apparent that
this was a common ability,
but how could they show
that when it was all secret?
Their first clue to how
common intuitive abilities are
came when a remote viewer
didn't show up for work.
>> So I had a chance to go
to San Jose, Costa Rica,
sort of a mountainous country.
And then each day,
a remote viewer
back in Menlo Park, California
described where I am.
Well, on a particular day, I
had a chance to do a trick.
I got an airplane, I flew
out, and landed at an Island
that belonged to Colombia.
It also turned out on that
day the remote viewer didn't
show up, so Russell
decided, well,
I'll do the remote viewing.
So Russell's trying
to suppress this data,
but it just keeps coming in.
He says, OK, well,
I guess I'm wrong.
I mean, you had no reason
to be in an airport.
And not only that, I see ocean
at the end of the runway.
And I know the ocean is miles
away in San Jose, Costa Rica.
Well, in fact,
that's exactly where
I was, because I had taken
this little side trip.
>> Did you actually
take that picture,
or is that a standard picture?
>> Somebody else
took the picture who,
when we had this data, they went
out and took it from the same
angle.
>> Showing that even a scientist
can do good remote viewing.
>> This led to a request from
their CIA handlers to bring
in someone with absolutely
no psychic ability to get
a baseline against their best.
That didn't work out so well.
She was statistically the
best results they ever had,
even better than the
infamous Pat Price.
>> We were asked to bring in
somebody who was willing to be
a control person
for the program,
and I chose to work
with Hella Hammid,
who is an old friend
of the family.
She promised me she had never
done ESP experiments before,
and she would be very happy
to be part of our program.
>> This is a remote viewing
experiment with Russ Targ
and Hella Hammid.
>> Today is Friday
October 11, 1974.
It's 20 minutes to
4:00 in the afternoon.
Russ Targ and Hella Hammid are
in the First Royal Laboratory
at SRI.
Hal has left SRI.
He will select a randomly
chosen destination.
>> I was looking up at this
structure that must be three,
four stories high, with
zig-zags going horizontally,
like a series of mountain
peaks on top of each other.
And they're just shapes.
Inside of the structure seems
to be open to the sky too.
Squares within squares within
squares, going downward,
like into a trough.
It's definitely some
kind of a conduit.
>> This is just where
Hal Puthoff was standing
at the time of Hella Hammid's
very first remote viewing.
>> Perhaps the most
dangerous secret of all,
the one that Russell Targ
has worked his whole life
to release, is that
anybody can be psychic.
>> And we have a target
now that requires a drawing
or a description, so I'd like
you to quiet your mind and make
a little sketch of the
surprising images that show up
in your awareness.
You want to get on paper the
shape and the form pertaining
to Paul's location.
We have Paul and Cynthia in
a bright green dress located
in some interesting place.
Do we have any falling
water in the audience?
>> This is the
waterfall coming down.
>> This page is the waterfall.
>> My primary purpose in coming
to this conference is actually
to see what I can do to become
a world-class remote viewer.
>> I couldn't believe it,
but it's different when you
actually do it.
>> I have no formal training.
It's really about sending
the message across to people
that if you put your mind and
heart to something, you know,
everything is possible.
The world is your oyster.
>> When a whole room of
people are able to do that,
it's not just me.
It's not just my imagination.
It's all of us.
>> You know, it's
the science part.
Everybody really
wants hard core data.
>> I think there's still a
question of what it means to be
really human, and what it means
to be a proper human being,
whatever that might mean, and
what is the essence of who we
are?
And I think that if
the world actually
had access to that
answer, I think
it would change everything.
>> So that's pretty good.
I'm used to Las Vegas.
Psychic abilities are real,
and you have these abilities.
And now we've got a free
ESP tester on the internet.
>> By the time we finished,
we knew more about our remote
viewers than NASA knew
about its astronauts.
There's nothing different
about them at all.
These are just normal people.
Like musical ability,
you've got virtuosos
at one end of the scale, and
you've got tone deaf people
at the other.
It's just in our culture, no one
values, quote, "ESP function."
>> It's just being human is
basically what it's all about.
>> Could it be that psychic
ability is much more common
than we think?
Even internal agents
at CIA back in 1975
were secretly doing it,
according to original program
manager Ken Kress.
>> Well, it turns out a
couple of people around OTS,
a lady by the name Francine
and a man by the name of Ed,
they decided they
wanted to be subjects.
Subjects.
And they were CIA employees now.
These were not SRI employees.
I actually got them involved
with a Libyan analyst.
I got gibberish as I remember
from Francine, but you know,
Ed was an engineer.
So he comes up, like Pat,
with very specific stuff.
He says what I see is a
Soviet radar that is involved
with an air defense system.
He goes on and on
with all this stuff.
And so I package all this up,
send it to the Libyan analyst,
and he said, you know, we
have an agent that we have not
vetted who says similar things.
And I said, you know,
that's news to me.
>> See, when they were with us,
it was not clear whether they
had come to see if there
is defects in our model,
or they had come to
be trained, or both.
>> Yeah, well, there may have
been a slight subterfuge,
shall we say.
I might have sent them
out there as evaluators,
and they may have been
motivated as participants.
>> By 1981, the program
had become more and more
operational.
The government was less and
less interested in research.
I wanted to be free
of all this secrecy.
>> From a scientific
standpoint, was not so good.
But on the other hand, of course
from the funding standpoint,
I can't complain.
>> And I brought that to
our contracting officer,
and he said, Russ, you know
we're not doing research
anymore.
And I said, well,
will you look at this?
Will you think about
what we're doing?
He said, I'm not paid to think.
I'm paid to find out what DIA
wants you to do and then see
that you do it.
I was heartbroken.
Hal and Ingo were more
secretive than ever,
and now Ingo was in charge
of the Army's psychics
and had made the
program so complicated
that only he could teach it.
And I got a note
from my partner,
questioning whether
I was really making
a contribution to the program.
>> What the most interesting
data at SRI pointed to was
exactly why Russell
wanted to leave.
It was a secret so big, he
felt that if the general public
could truly get it, it might
bring enemies together,
and it might even
change the world.
>> Russell was kind of the
idea man who was always kind
of pushing the bad scientist
type of thing where he actually
looked the part to some degree.
>> When I decided to leave, this
was in 1985 when we had dozens
of psychics, and
lots of laboratories,
and people out there as
consultants, and so on.
And I ended up
spending all my time
not doing research, but
handling personnel issues,
and funding issues, and
writing grants and proposals.
I'd get up in the morning
and say, well, you know,
actually I could be
getting back to research.
>> Mister Gorbachev,
tear down this wall.
>> I say no more secrets.
>> SRI's intelligence work
with psychics would go
on for another decade,
mostly unnoticed until one
of their greatest covert
triumphs became their most
infamous leak.
>> Remember Jimmy Carter's
telling of finding the downed
Russian bomber in the Congo?
In 1995, President Carter
recounted that during a talk
to Emery University,
accidentally outing
our top secret program to CNN.
>> Students submitted
questions on numerous topics,
both serious and
lighthearted, and as always,
President Carter
answered them all.
>> The release of that
information contributed
to the end of the remote
viewing program at SRI.
>> After Russell and
Hal left the program,
it continued under Ed May,
but eventually confronted
the giggle factor.
>> So I would ask the
intelligence community to watch
what we do for the
next few years.
>> CIA publicly derided
the Army-run program,
and in the end, they were
asked to take it on again.
>> A pretty low priority for
the intelligence community,
and it's better
done on the outside.
>> Instead, they commissioned
a third party report to quote,
"see if it had been viable
to operational intelligence."
>> And that's our
report for tonight.
>> So what do all these
stories add up to?
Well, the two experts
commissioned by the CIA report
disagree.
First, there's
psychologist Ray Hyman
from the University of Oregon.
>> My considered judgment, if
someone pushed me hard right
now, I'd have to say the
odds are 99 to 1 that
there's nothing
to remote viewing.
>> I think remote viewing has
been demonstrated over the 20
years of work that has been
sponsored by the government.
>> Ed May was very upset at the
way the AIR report was done.
He was very upset
that they did not
look at the operational
remote viewing,
and that they did
not allow us to talk
to the operational viewers.
I think he was
quite disappointed
that they narrowed the focus
so much so that really, it
might have been a predetermined
conclusion that they wanted
to kill the program.
I think that anybody who
says we haven't proven it yet
hasn't really
looked at the data.
I think frankly, people don't
want to look at the data.
They have their world views.
They don't want those
world views rocked.
I think anybody who looks
at it with a real open mind
would be convinced.
>> I became 100% certain
that it was real acquisition
of information.
I became 100% certain that
it had potentially real
intelligence significance.
And I became 100% certain
that it never would.
>> Why?
>> What I thought were the
issues that would make this
a useful tool were both ignored,
denied, and in addition,
later dropped, which is
screening of subjects to find
the superstars.
>> You're tested carefully
to find your special talent.
>> Using the tools that I
thought we had identified,
which were politically
not correct then to use,
and which are politically
impossible to use today.
>> Well, you're here.
You really arrived.
You can loosen up a bit now.
>> You would have
a latent ability,
that maybe a lot of humans have,
that you'd be able to tease out
of some people with some sort of
training program or something,
and you'd end up
with what ended up.
>> After we did our
report, a few months later,
maybe a year later, I received
a phone call from somebody who
worked high up in
the government,
and he wanted to know
if this was for real.
And I said, I stand by
what I wrote in the report.
And he said, well, I'm going
to see if I can get access
to the operational work.
He called me back and he
said he got access to it.
None of the boxes
had been opened.
>> Jessica is the president
of the American Statistical
Society, and she
says by the numbers,
remote viewing has a higher
efficacy than aspirin.
What was the CIA trying so hard
to hide that they wouldn't even
allow their best
data to be seen?
And why did the CIA dislike
those regular Joe Army guys
so much?
>> We had the total support of
five administrations in a row.
Five straight administrations
supported us, Russell.
Privately.
>> This was a very
illuminating trip.
You never know who
your friends are.
>> Since I was told by the
DCI the project was over,
that was it.
It was over.
>> Ken was removed as CIA
program manager shortly before
Pat Price's death, and he
assumes that CIA involvement
ended with Price.
>> No, I heard that they were
discussing the Stargate program
out of channel.
In other words,
they were talking
about a classified program
in an unclassified area.
It looks like a
security violation.
We need to investigate
this further.
Now what?
The gamble was, ignore
it, and it would go away.
The suggestion to me was
that, OK, let people just
wonder about it.
But if you start
complaining about it,
it will affirm that
we do have a program.
They didn't really
want to go that route.
>> Russell's first interview
with one of the most
spectacular spies from his
SRI days was a no-show.
Later, the agent called to
say they were still doing it
and were afraid
to talk about it.
>> Beyond the giggle factor,
what was the big deal?
What does all of this mean?
Could we be missing
the big picture here?
>> No, that's not right.
I told you before, two people
that I trust that are--
one of whom is in
a position to know
says that the program
is still going on.
>> Really?
>> Just how useful
is remote viewing?
How far would Russell go to
tell the world what had become
painfully obvious to him?
This was something that
Russell was inspired
to consider after
witnessing Ingo predict
that Chinese A-bomb test
three days in advance,
and similar work
by Steven Schwartz.
And it involved precognition,
or seeing the future.
The final straw was when he
received a package in the mail
from the ghost of an old friend
regarding some water towers
that had haunted him for years.
>> I get the impression of
a water treatment plant.
It looks like water
storage tanks.
It's a service room down here.
>> In Pat Price's first
series of experiments,
he got the shape and dimensions
of the swimming pool target
within 12 inches.
But he also called it a
water treatment plant,
even drawing water
towers, which missed
the whole point of the target.
>> Years after
Pat Price's death,
I received a historical
picture book.
It was a gift from the
city manager of Palo Alto.
When I opened the picture book
to Rinconada Park 75 years ago,
it had been a water
purification plant.
And the two water tanks that
Price had indicated indeed
were right where he put them,
and they would undoubtedly
have been the tallest
thing in the city
of Palo Alto 75 years ago.
With Pat's reminder of
timeless awareness in hand,
I hatched a plan to
ditch the spy business
and try and wake up the world.
>> This is the commodities
exchange in New York City,
circa 1983.
It was right here Russell
Targ's new company, Delphi,
decided to tell the world
that they were psychic.
>> We've been predicting
silver prices two to four days
in advance.
Our investors made profits
in the middle six figures.
>> Something I couldn't do
while I was a psychic spy.
>> Predicting the volatile
market nine times in a row even
landed them on the cover of
the "Wall Street Journal."
>> --right nine
times out of nine.
>> Again, being right in
anything in life nine times out
of nine is unheard of.
>> But some of the more
spectacular and successful
trades were actually
on the short side,
where they make a prediction
in anticipation of the market
coming down, so going
against the trend.
>> But there's still elements
that are not understood,
so it does not always work.
So I wouldn't put
my life savings
behind a remote
viewing of the future.
>> Investor demands and the
weight of their own success led
to the second round
not doing as well.
Money dried up, and
the skeptics pounced.
Russell would have
to go even farther
to prove his point about ESP.
A lot farther.
>> When they first
invited me to come,
and their letter to me said,
please come to the Soviet Union
so we can exchange propaganda.
>> I didn't have a big
concern about that.
I trusted Russell.
>> He went through the
process of asking permission.
I assume that.
I'm actually quite confident
of that, because had he not
done so, he would be in jail.
>> No, I did not ask any
permission to go to Russia.
I just went.
Of course, they can't
reveal secret information.
And I declared my
independence and left.
And they said, is there
anything you'd like
to see as long as you're here?
And I said, oh yes,
I would like to have
a peek at Brezhnev's office.
I would just like to
see where he sits.
We were once targeted to
describe Premier Brezhnev's
office in the Kremlin
with Hella Hammid.
>> Who was the control
person initially.
>> That's right.
And indeed, just
as she described,
he had this odd red leather door
held in place by upholstery.
Had the huge desk on the
right, window on the left,
and a door in the
wall behind the desk.
And we did not go downstairs
into the computer room.
When we were talking to the
Soviet Academy of Sciences,
for example, a physicist
got up and said,
it seems that if an
experienced viewer can
focus his or her attention
anywhere on the planet,
then it's not possible
to hide anything anymore.
Isn't that true?
And the Russians in the audience
were quite shocked with that.
I could hear the
tea cups rattling.
The very idea of secrets
is not our true nature.
Openness is.
40 years ago, I stood
in this exact place.
>> I don't think anyone really
expected Russian and American
scientists to work together.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 1987, and I start teaching
remote viewing in Russia,
and no one in Russia knew
about this in that moment.
>> Yuriy is one of the Russian
psychologists that Russell met
during his travels, and now
he's come out of the cold
and brought some friends.
>> And I decide to go to United
States of America to take
training from Russell Targ.
At first it was--
first for Russell Targ.
>> Little did I know when I
left SRI that the Russians would
become capitalists.
Nowadays, Russians are invading.
>> Having watched the end of the
Soviet Union as a cadet at West
Point and then fast
forwarding to today,
I'm a little bit lost.
>> Now, Russian people are
very enthusiastic about remote
viewing.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> Remote viewing instructor
Lori Williams has brought
a group of 20 Russian doctors
and engineers to Los Angeles
to learn remote
viewing for themselves.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> So the event she was asking
about had already occurred.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
I got a phone call from a man
with a strong Russian accent,
and he was asking me if I
would be willing to teach
remote viewing to Russians.
We are not remote viewing yet.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
And so when he called
and said, why don't we
do something in Los Angeles?
Then it just sort
of grew from there.
We started planning
this about a year ago,
this class in Los Angeles.
We're going to do
a quick review.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
OK, so the students all
received individual targets,
so they don't-- no one's
viewing someone else's target.
They've all got their own.
And we've actually been working
on these targets for four days.
By viewing something
repeatedly, it
creates a memory
path to the target
and makes it easier to view.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> So most likely it's a person.
>> He's doing some research.
Something about space.
>> Something about space--
>> Space, space.
>> --and the universe.
>> Humans have been asking these
deep questions about the nature
of their reality, and they
suggest using the tools
of our society to ask these deep
questions in a different way.
The ancients did too, with what
they had available to them.
The scientific model has
to change continuously
to accommodate our knowledge,
and if we're learning more,
then we have to fit that
into our bigger picture
of understanding reality.
>> And here's a sketch for you.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> Then he thought
it was the moon?
This is a very
kinesthetic day today.
They're going to be
using their hands
creating 3D models of the target
using Sculpey clay, modeling
clay.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> It looks like a spider.
It has little-- what spider has?
>> Legs.
Yeah.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> He called you Armstrong.
>> He said that's
Neil Armstrong.
Is that it?
That is all?
Are you ready for your feedback?
OK, hold onto your seats, folks,
because this was the Apollo 11
trip to the moon.
>> Apollo 11.
>> Apollo.
>> Apollo 11 trip to the
moon with Neil Armstrong.
[APPLAUSE]
Now, that's truly what we
refer to as a holy shit moment.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yes.
>> Well, fundamentally we're
talking about interpreting what
we see.
And I think all of
us for centuries,
and certainly all of
the astronauts that
have been off the planet
looking back at Earth,
would kind of call
it the big picture
effect of seeing things
in a new perspective,
seeing Earth in the perspective
of being in the heavens.
And that we're just a small
part of this huge universe
that we're in.
>> I had completed my major
task for going to the moon,
and was on the way home, and
was observing the passing
of the heavens.
The magnificence of all of this.
What this triggered
in my visioning,
in the ancient Sanskrit
is called samadhi.
It means that you see things
with your senses the way
they are, but you
experience them viscerally
and internally as a unity and a
oneness accompanied by ecstasy.
We are star dust, and we're
all one in that sense.
In other words, instead
of just serving yourself,
what it tends to help
you do is to realize
you're a part of
a larger reality,
and to serve that larger
reality in a proper way.
>> So I'm not so sure it was all
about collecting intelligence
and how well we did.
The evolution of consciousness
itself is expanding.
Consciousness itself can evolve,
and I believe that's probably
towards what I call empathy.
>> The main idea from all of
our research is that there is no
separation, especially no
separation in consciousness.
More than machinery,
we need our humanity.
>> If the world were to
accept this research,
we would have to recognize
that we are not isolated within
our brains.
We would have to recognize
that we live in the Earth,
not on the Earth.
We live embedded in
the biosphere of Earth.
And that all consciousness
is interconnected and
interrelated.
>> And that's why we can
transmit the power of love,
the power of healing.
Maybe it's very subliminal,
but it definitely exists.
>> When I came across
this, I said, you know,
there's a lot of people
who will think you're nuts.
But, you know, hang on.
Maybe you're not.
We should always be
open to our imagination,
because once in a while
some of the imaginations
will come true.
So I think it's time to
close up and move on.
So Hella returned to Los
Angeles to resume her life
as a professional photographer.
She died of cancer in 1992.
>> But not before she uncovered
the lost temple of Alexandria,
Egypt, with Steven Schwartz
and the Egyptian government.
They placed the first
stake within 12 inches
of where it had been buried
for thousands of years
and put the skeptics to
rest, at least for that day.
>> She was given no information
beyond the general hilltop
location.
>> Things are going to change,
because science is changing.
>> Ingo took the closure of
the Army program hard and went
into seclusion.
We reconnected in later
years and had a chance
to talk about old times.
>> I'm going to talk
about the future,
because I think that we're far
too much trapped in the past.
>> And Sam got very talented
cellists who had not remote
viewed.
They went into an expanded
state and got impressions.
They then took it
up to the composers.
>> Atmospheric.
>> Two not opposing but
interrelated forces.
Trickle it up and down.
>> What was the feedback?
Well, they didn't know
what was in the envelope.
>> It's very, very close.
It's very descriptive of bugs.
So playing it and listening
to it kind of makes you itch.
>> Kit Green says he still
consults for the CIA.
>> Green.
Think, think, think, think.
And I had.
I thought about
it for many years.
I'll give you the answer.
The most precious secrets
are hidden in plain sight.
That's a stupid expression,
but you know what?
It happens sometimes to be true.
>> He told me collaborates
regularly with Hal,
but on what, neither
one of them will say.
>> I've got it going
through me, if you can see.
>> Hal Puthoff resigned from
the SRI remote viewing program
at the height of its success,
but he did go back to remote
viewing at least one more time.
>> Hal repeated my silver
forecasting experiment for his
child's high school.
He raised $25,000 from the stock
market for a class field trip
to Washington.
Then he went back to
seeking to extract energy
from the vacuum in
his Austin laboratory.
>> Well, we've got our
hands in every pot.
>> It turns out that Kit and
Hal really were collaborating.
Kit brought Hal into a top
secret Pentagon UFO assessment
program, revealed in December
2017 by "The New York Times."
Oh, and Hal says they've
recovered UFO debris,
but that's another story.
>> Pat Price's grave in North
Hollywood remains unmarked,
and his death remains a mystery.
>> And as for Russell Targ, he
continues to tell his story,
showing people just like you
and me all around the world that
we're all psychic.
>> At the end of
the film they say,
no animals were harmed in
the making of this film.
So I'd like to ask
you, is it fair to say
that no physics were harmed
in the making of this film?
>> Physics isn't, but
some physicists might be.